# Relational Databases Projects @FreeCodeCamp

This repository (so far) contains three projects that is included in the FreeCodeCamp's [Relational Database](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/relational-database/) course including two projects required to obtain the certificate of the program:

1. Celestial Bodies Database (Certification Project)
2. Worldcup Database (Certification Project)
3. Bike Rental Shop (Tutorial Project)
4. Salon Appointment Scheduler (Certification Project)


## Celestial Bodies Database

Contains the Celestial Bodies database for various planets within the solar system and beyond. It is generated by hard coding information found online using CLI of PostgreSQL.  

- universe.sql

which can be used to rebuild the Celestial Bodies database by entering `psql -U postgres < universe.sql` in a terminal where the .sql file is.

### References
[Nasa Exoplanets Database](https://exoplanets.nasa.gov/discovery/exoplanet-catalog/)

## World Cup Database

Contains `worldcup.sql` dump file (generated via `pg_dump` CLI utility @ `psql`) for the Worldcup DB that have two tables `teams` (national teams that competed in the last 16 round and beyond in the WC 2014 and 2018) and `games` (each game in the last 16 round and beyond in the WC 2014 and 2018). 

The DB is populated by pipelining the contents of the `games.csv` file using the bash script `insert_data.sh`. The resulting DB is then queried using `queries.sh` to get more insight about the data.

Worldcup DB can be rebuild by entering `psql -U postgres < worldcup.sql` in a terminal where the .sql file is.

## Bike Rental Shop

Contains:

- `bike-shop.sql` dump file that can be used to re-build the bikeshop database which include three tables `bikes` (list of bikes depending on their `type`, `size` and `availability`), `rentals` (the log of bike rentals with `rental_id`,`customer_id`,`bike_id`,`date_rented`, `date_returned`) and `customers` (with `customer_id`, `phone`, `name`) tables.
- A bash script `bike-shop.sh` that both interacts with the bike shop database and the user to mimic the bike rental and return process.

## Salon Appointment Scheduler

Contains:

- `salon.sql` dump file that can be used to re-build the salon database which include three tables `services` (list of services offered by the salon shop with their `name`,`type` and `service_id`), `customers` (table with information on the customers of the salon including their UNIQUE `phone` number, `name` and `customer_id`) and `appointments` which keep track of the appointment schedule by keeping the log of `appointment_id`, `customer_id` , `service_id` and `time`.
- A bash script `salon.sh` that interacts with the salon database and the user to make appointments for services offered in the salon shop.

*Further possible improvements: Adding a module to make rescheduling of already existing appointments*
